Add fulltime journey blog (#2903)
layer5io/layer5: src/collections/blog/2022/2022-06-12-from-contributor-to-full-time/index.mdx

---
title: From Contributor To Full Time
subtitle: My Experience with Layer5 from contributor to Full-time
date: 2022-06-12 10:30:05 -0530
author: Abhishek Kumar

> description: "The transition from the novice contributor to a full-time at Layer: The service Mesh company"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "The transition from the novice contributor to a full-time at Layer5"
```

thumbnail: ./thumbnail.png
category: Community
tags:
 - Community

>  - Full-time
>  - Employee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Zero knowledge of project and their core tech stack

A lot of us get uncomfortable seeing the large open-source codebase, I was no different. I had no knowledge of what a service-mesh is, having zero understanding of their core language and platforms they provide and work on. I had only React and Node with me. I took time, took a short break, learnt about service-meshes, and more about kubernetes. It's good to get familiarity with the concepts you are going to work on otherwise everything will go above your head and you may not be able to persist a long term run in the project-development. As always, I got the help from the existing members of Layer5, Lee calcote, Utkarsh, and many others. They pointed me to good resources and directions in the project I knew nothing about.

### My First PR

> As I always suggest, I started with setting up the project as a user and developer, meanwhile I got issues in installation scripts of meshery and this way I got my [first PR](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/pull/3193) landed in Meshery fixing much required installation script, that had further helped other users easily setup their project. One of the key point while you are contributing or getting started with any project is noting down your problems, asking the community whether it is a valid problem you are facing or it requires a fix, you can do it by creating [an issue](https://github.com/meshery/meshery/issues/3192). I continued slowly, very slowly, getting familiarity with tech-stack and community members. The community calendar is a must subscribe to as it reminds of development, newcomers, community and other such helpful meetings where you can query your problems and ask your doubts; don't be shy, they are only meant for you.

Reviewer 2: Link to community calender page

### Learning things on go

We often feel under-confident about the tech-stacks required in a new organisation. My peers at Layer5 are great example of overcoming the learning barrier and practicing learning as they go with the project. There are more number of technologies involved in a project than you count, staying back will never get you anywhere; take the problems as a challenege to master the skill while doing meaningful contributions along the way. You should be dynamic and always ready to learn while contributing to any project, the Layer5 community will be a great help to you in getting you accustomed to new things. Discuss, Prototype, Build, Iterate is the principle we follow.

### Get Rewarded with Maintainership

> Maintainership is always an accomplishment, it shows the trust of original authors to you. I have been mostly focused towards the Meshery-UI and MeshMap extensions, thus I got the maintainership in these areas. Meshery is a broader area connecting a lot of service meshes and kubernetes operations, thus the access to only certain domain comes up. Maintaining projects is a whole lot additions to resposibilities then contributing, you are guarding the queen now, but that's also more exciting at the same time. Did it took my sleep?? Naah, just sometimes when I mess up with my own code integrating some new features or fixing some legacy code-base. Maintaining projects gives you authority, and the same is pushing you to learn more to talk about what you want to put forward. I remember times when I had to do a research just to write a github comment as an authority, I am lucky enough to get this experience from Meshery where your words are heard.

Reviewer 2: Link to MeshMap
